README.md, before:

# Welcome to SWORDS

Welcome to the **S**can and revie**W** of **O**pen **R**esearch **D**ata and **S**oftware (**SWORDS**) project. The SWORDS project is a powerful framework to gain insights in the open source activities of your, but not limited to, university or research institute. This repository is the start of your own implementation for your organisation! Read this part carefully. For any questions, please use the issue tracker. 

This repository contists of 2 parts, the instruction and the template. The instruction is what you are reading right now, the template starts at the `<<< The template starts here >>>` below. To implement SWORDS easily, we recommend to make use of the template function in GitHub. The instruction below helps you to implement SWORDS for your organisation step-by-step. 

## Getting started with SWORDS

1. Define a name for your project. The recommended name is SWORDS@{INSERT YOUR ORGANISATION NAME ABBRAVATION}. 
2. [Create a repository from the SWORDS template](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template) with the name as defined in step 1. 
3. Replace all fields in the README of your repostitory starting with `{INSERT ...}` by your details of your project and organisation. 
4. Delete in the README everything between `<!-- REMOVE EVERYTHING BEFORE THIS LINE IN STEP 4 -->`. 

## <<< The template starts here >>>
<!-- REMOVE EVERYTHING BEFORE THIS LINE IN STEP 4 -->

# SWORDS@{INSERT YOUR ORGANISATION NAME ABBRAVATION}

![banner](docs/banner.png)

This repository implements for the [**S**can and revie**W** of **O**pen **R**esearch **D**ata and **S**oftware (SWORDS)](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/SWORDS-template) framework. SWORDS is a powerful tool to gain insights in the open source activities of your, but not limited to, university or research institute. Studies show that open source contributions can be very benificial for organisation and society. SWORDS is devided into 3 stages that can be exectued and analyzed standalone: finding user profiles associated to your organisation, extract relevant repositories, and study the contents of the respositories. 

<p align="center">
  This repository is an implementation of SWORDS for <b>{INSERT YOUR ORGANISATION NAME}</b>.
   <!-- For example Utrecht University -->
</p>
<p align="center">
  <b>SWORDS@{INSERT YOUR ORGANISATION NAME ABBRAVATION}</b>
  <!-- For example SWORDS@UU -->
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="your_logo.svg">
</p>

## Background

Conducting science in a open and collaborative way is very important for greater scientific and societal impact (https://www.nwo.nl/en/open-science). The Open Science movement is therefore actively promoting and advancing openness in academic publications, data, software, and other types of output. Major steps have been made of the last years, however, there is still a lot to improve and win. As a result of this movement towards more open research output, is the increase of code and software published by researcher on online platforms. The use and reuse of open source (research) software and code is widespread nowadays. 

For (research) organisations, it can be interesting to have insights into the contributions and activities in open source software projects. Especially because activities of members, researchers, or employees can be divided over multiple user profiles and platforms (e.g. GitHub and GitLab). Having an overview of the activity, contents, and quality can be useful for various reasons like connecting initiatives, improve quality, and reward and recognize contributions. The SWORDS framework was introduced to help collect insights and help to access quality. 

<!-- Introduce FAIR -->

## The SWORDS framework

- Its goal is to analyze the FAIRness of GitHub repositories of Utrecht University researchers and see how they develop and manage software. While the analysis and data collection is done for Utrecht University researchers only, the purpose of this research is to serve as a template for other researchers to scan and review repositories for their university as well.

The project is split into 3 phases that correspond to the folder structure. The following hyperlinks lead to the detailed readme of each phase.

1. [User collection](collect_users/README.md)
2. [Repository collection](collect_repositories/README.md)
3. [Variable collection](collect_variables/README.md)

Each phase consists of several Python scripts and file outputs, mainly in .csv format. There is also a corresponding interactive data analysis jupyter notebook file in each phase. You can find the whole pipeline as a diagram under [Pipeline](#flowchart).

For more information about the phases, please look into the corresponding subfolders for further information on installation and usage. Note that every .csv output has a datestamp column named **date**.

## Pipeline

<p align="center">
  <img src="SWORDS_basic_flow.drawio.png">
</p>

## Contact

Within the track of FAIR data and software, a research project regarding the Scan and revieW of Open Research Data and Software at Utrecht University (SWORDS@UU) has been conducted.

For technical questions, you contact either [Keven Quach](https://github.com/kequach) or [Jonathan de Bruin](https://github.com/J535D165) or open an issue on GitHub.

## Contributors

This project was implemented by de Bruin, J., Quach, K., Slewe, C., & Lamprecht, A. (2021).

### Citation

Use this citation for citing the SWORDS implementation of Utrecht University.
```
@software{de_Bruin_Scan_and_revieW_2021,
author = {de Bruin, Jonathan and Quach, Keven and Slewe, Christopher and Lamprecht, Anna-Lena},
month = {9},
title = {{Scan and revieW of Open Research Data and Software at Utrecht University}},
url = {https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/SWORDS-UU},
version = {1.0.0},
year = {2021}
}
```

Use this citation for citing the SWORDS template.
```
@software{de_Bruin_Scan_and_revieW_2021,
author = {de Bruin, Jonathan and Quach, Keven and Slewe, Christopher and Lamprecht, Anna-Lena},
month = {9},
title = {{Template of Scan and revieW of Open Research Data and Software}},
url = {https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/SWORDS-template},
version = {1.0.0},
year = {2021}
}
```

## Attribution

<div>Icons made by <a href="https://www.freepik.com" title="Freepik">Freepik</a> from <a href="https://www.flaticon.com/" title="Flaticon">www.flaticon.com</a></div>

Commit message:

Restructure sections and add info about framework

README.md, after:

# Welcome to SWORDS

Welcome to the **S**can and revie**W** of **O**pen **R**esearch **D**ata and **S**oftware (**SWORDS**) project. The SWORDS project is a powerful framework to gain insights in the open source activities of your, but not limited to, university or research institute. This repository is the start of your own implementation for your organisation! Read this part carefully. For any questions, please use the issue tracker. 

This repository contists of 2 parts, the instruction and the template. The instruction is what you are reading right now, the template starts at the `<<< The template starts here >>>` below. To implement SWORDS easily, we recommend to make use of the template function in GitHub. The instruction below helps you to implement SWORDS for your organisation step-by-step. 

## Getting started with SWORDS

1. Define a name for your project. The recommended name is SWORDS@{INSERT YOUR ORGANISATION NAME ABBRAVATION}. 
2. [Create a repository from the SWORDS template](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template) with the name as defined in step 1. 
3. Replace all fields in the README of your repostitory starting with `{INSERT ...}` by your details of your project and organisation. 
4. Delete in the README everything between `<!-- REMOVE EVERYTHING BEFORE THIS LINE IN STEP 4 -->`. 

## <<< The template starts here >>>
<!-- REMOVE EVERYTHING BEFORE THIS LINE IN STEP 4 -->

# SWORDS@{INSERT YOUR ORGANISATION NAME ABBRAVATION}

![banner](docs/banner.png)

This repository implements for the [**S**can and revie**W** of **O**pen **R**esearch **D**ata and **S**oftware (SWORDS)](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/SWORDS-template) framework. SWORDS is a powerful tool to gain insights in the open source activities of your, but not limited to, university or research institute. Studies show that open source contributions can be very benificial for organisation and society. SWORDS is devided into 3 stages that can be exectued and analyzed standalone: finding user profiles associated to your organisation, extract relevant repositories, and study the contents of the respositories. 

<p align="center">
  This repository is an implementation of SWORDS for <b>{INSERT YOUR ORGANISATION NAME}</b>.
   <!-- For example Utrecht University -->
</p>
<p align="center">
  <b>SWORDS@{INSERT YOUR ORGANISATION NAME ABBRAVATION}</b>
  <!-- For example SWORDS@UU -->
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="your_logo.svg">
</p>

## Background

Conducting science in a open and collaborative way is very important for greater scientific and societal impact (https://www.nwo.nl/en/open-science). The Open Science movement is therefore actively promoting and advancing openness in academic publications, data, software, and other types of output. Major steps have been made of the last years, however, there is still a lot to improve and win. As a result of this movement towards more open research output, is the increase of code and software published by researcher on online platforms. The use and reuse of open source (research) software and code is widespread nowadays. 

For (research) organisations, it can be interesting to have insights into the contributions and activities in open source software projects. Especially because activities of members, researchers, or employees can be divided over multiple user profiles and platforms (e.g. GitHub and GitLab). Having an overview of the activity, contents, and quality can be useful for various reasons like connecting initiatives, improve quality, and reward and recognize contributions. The SWORDS framework was introduced to help collect insights and help to access quality. 

<!-- Introduce FAIR -->

## The SWORDS framework


- Its goal is to analyze the FAIRness of GitHub repositories of Utrecht University researchers and see how they develop and manage software. While the analysis and data collection is done for Utrecht University researchers only, the purpose of this research is to serve as a template for other researchers to scan and review repositories for their university as well.



The SWORDS framework consists of three mostly-independent steps. Each step is described below and detailed information and instructions can be found in the links. 

1. **[Find user profiles associated to organisation](collect_users/)**. In this first step of the framework, multiple strategies are available to find users on GitHub and GitLab that are members or employees of your organisation. By using multiple collection strategies, the recall is considered to be high. The findability of members or employees is one of the output variables of this step. A structured list of users is used as input for the next step.
2. **[Collect relevant repositories](collect_repositories/)**. In the second step, the repositories of the users collected in the previous step are collected and filtered. Not all repositories are research output. These repositories are filted out automatically and/or manually.
3. **[Study and analyze repositories](collect_variables/)**. In this step, research repositories are examined and studied on various quantitiative and qualitative properties. One can think about quality assesments, documentation availablity, FAIRness scores. 

<p align="center">
  <img src="SWORDS_basic_flow.drawio.png">
</p>

The SWORDS framework is written in Python 3.6+. The SWORDS framework implements the reproducible project structure as proposed by XXX(XXXX) for each step of the framework. For more information about the phases, please look into the corresponding subfolders for further information on installation and usage. All output data is stored in output folders. There is also a corresponding interactive data analysis jupyter notebook file in each step. This notebook can be used for results. 

## Usage

WIP

## Citation

Use this citation for citing the SWORDS implementation of Utrecht University.
```
{INSERT CITATION DETAILS}
```

To cite the SWORDS project and the SWORDS template, use 

```
@software{de_Bruin_Scan_and_revieW_2021,
author = {de Bruin, Jonathan and Quach, Keven and Slewe, Christopher and Lamprecht, Anna-Lena},
month = {9},
title = {{Template of Scan and revieW of Open Research Data and Software}},
url = {https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/SWORDS-template},
version = {1.0.0},
year = {2021}
}
```

## License

The SWORDS project template is published under the [MIT License](/license).

Icons of the banner are made by [Freepik](https://www.freepik.com "Freepik") from [www.flaticon.com](https://www.flaticon.com/ "Flaticon").

## Contact

For contact about this implementation of the SWORDS project, SWORDS@{INSERT YOUR ORGANISATION NAME ABBRAVATION}, post an issue on the [issue tracker](/issues) or contact {INSERT YOUR EMAIL}. 

For general questions and remarks about the SWORDS project and the template can be posted on the [issue tracker of the SWORDS template](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/SWORDS-template/issues). You can also contact either [Jonathan de Bruin](https://github.com/J535D165) or [Keven Quach](https://github.com/kequach). 

The SWORDS project is an idea of the FAIR Data and Software working group of the Utrecht University Open Science Programme.
